In this project, we are trying to load environment variables for a particular environment using dotenv.
We are not using docker. We are just using pm2.

Steps:

1. npm init. Add "type":"module" in package.json to declare all .js files as ES6 modules.
2. Add src folder with app.js
3. Install express and install dotenv as dev dependency. pm2 is already installed globally.
4. Run "pm2 ecosystem" to generate ecosystem.config.js. Rename to ecosystem.config.cjs because it is a
Common JS module and not ES6 module.

In this file,

    append_env_to_name: true, // <===== add this line
    This ensures I can run multiple environments of the application on the same server
    This property appends the environment name passed to the --env flag to the name of the app.
    The name of the app comes from "name" field in the same file.
    

env:{
      NODE_ENV:'production'
    },
means that all environments by default will take NODE_ENV as 'production'. This is a great place to define defaults.

Next moving to environment specific variables. Here i have just defined those variables necessary for
dotenv to function.

  env_development:{
      DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH:'.env.development',
      PORT:3000,
      APP_ENV:'development'
    },
    env_production:{
      DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH:'.env.production',
      PORT:8080,
      APP_ENV:'production'
    },
DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH is a variable defined to indicate to dotenv
package which .env file to pick.

We are storing all other variables in .env.development and .env.production files in the root of the project. These files will not be committed into the source control. They will be mentioned in the 
.gitignore file so that any sensitive information is not leaked.

APP_ENV defines the target environment the app is running in.

.env.development

api-key=dev-api-key

.env.production

api-key=prod-api-key

Finally,     node_args:`-r dotenv/config`
We are executing the dotenv command here so that no dotenv code is required the src code.

5. Finally, in the package.json, we are running the application locally using the pm2 commands.

   "pm2-dev-start": "pm2 startOrReload ecosystem.config.cjs --env development",
    "pm2-prod-start": "pm2 startOrReload ecosystem.config.cjs --env production",


7. Before deployment ensure, you have Node and npm installed on the remote server. If its a linux server,
login into the server via cmd

ssh asureuser22@4.201.137.36

execute the below commands.

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nodejs
sudo apt-get install npm

After this, give access to the below 2 folders(otherwise pm2 installation will fail)

sudo chmod +777 /usr/local/lib/
sudo chmod +777 /usr/local/bin/

 install pm2 globally on the remote server

npm install -g pm2

Ensure you execute the below command next, to ensure that any existing Node processes will start automatically, if the remote server shuts down and restarts in the future. During the execution of this
command, it will ask you to execute another autogenerated command. Do that too.

pm2 startup

9.You can deploy the app via pm2 only from git bash otherwise you will get the ENOENT error


pm2 takes care of connecting to the remote server, pulling the code from repo, installing dependencies and then executing
the "post-deploy" code for running the app.

The below command needs to be run only 1 time for setup:
pm2 deploy ecosystem.config.cjs development setup

After that only the below command will be executed for each deployment

pm2 deploy ecosystem.config.cjs development

If its successfull, you can run the app on serverip:3000

10. Note that since .env files are not pushed into the repository, they wont be there when cloned into
remote server. Hence .env files are only for local use.
When deploying the app, the environment variables need to be configured on the remote server.
